26.08.2025 (23:13 HRS)

So I intend to get into backend development from data science since the world of data feels too abstract for me and more because I have always wanted to be a backend engineer...lol.

I decided to do a kinf of on the job earning where I build projects and in building these projects I will learn the necessary skills to be an actual backend dev.

I am taking this approach because Ialready know python and sql (postgres) well. and i already know how to use docker and security (.env) to an extent so I don't want to get into the spiral of learning and never applying.
you get what i mean, yeah?

Now now,

I curated about 4 projects using chatgpt and gemini (cos they can do those kinda things for me) and put myself under a 3-month embargo of some sort...kekeke
that is just to push myself cos i prefer to work that way.

Now I'm starting this project.
that's obvious since i created a github repo for it. you're smart.

Then upon starting this one I looked at the aim of the project and it just seemed bland to me for a real-world project. Like is this really a project that will solve a need?
Turns out i had fallen into the trap of thinking that i am good enough to solve real projects when i don't even have personal proof that i can build any backend project at all.

Now I'm humble. I'll do this one even though its basically a replica of jumia, konga, etsy and it's brethren...even temu (damn it)

So let's get to it. It's the start of something new I guess


----
----

27.08.2025 (21:18 HRS)

I've gone through some videos by Dennis Ivy on Django but I think it'll be better to follow along withone video and get a hang of it since that is what I will be using primarily. I need to take some time to properly learn django and DRF.

The advantage of this on-the-job learning is seeing what I need to learn, learning it and utilizing it immediately.

I've seen how to start the project so I decided to apply that today. We're in!

---
---

29.08.2025 (23:03 HRS)

Now I'm setting up a django project from scratch with all the initial dependencies

Next step is creating a django app for the users of the marketplace, add it to the INSTALLED_APPS along with the rest framework and the json web token package.
I'll check if it's there with runserver. Didn't work.

Meanwhile, I should add a products page. And one for orders and payments too.
Tried checking the admin page. Turnss out I need a username and password. Didn't know I needed to create a superuser.
Well, now I know!


---
---

01.09.2025 (22:13 HRS) - 02.09.2025 (01:30HRS)

But it's better now. I get it now.

Now I'd deal with the database schema next. Django uses models for this since models are a python class that represents database tables.

Well, upi've not finished the truth for to fast. To be continued from order/models.py



---
---


07.09.2025

Been a long time since I wrote any code. I've been down and lazy at the same time. 
Well, we move!

I saw that I made a typo in my users.models file so I corrected it but I want to create the models for the orders, payments and products before I migrate.

After migrations I couldn't still login to django admin. StackOverflow says I need to create a superuser

I've created the superuser. Let's run it.
It works!!!